---
layout: post
title: Fridge!
---

So when I purchased the new to me fridge and the gruff movers placed it in my kitchen, I did say , "Hmm this seems like a wimpy outlet for the fridge." I plugged it in to the regular outlet behind the fridge and didn't think of it again. Fast forward a month. There was a big thunderstorm on a Friday night, and with it came some power surges and eventual outage. The power was pulsating on and off for a while. On Saturday afternoon as I was preparing to go to Tosa, I realized the fridge was dead. I hadn't looked at it closely since the power came back on at 6 something in the morning. I called and told Matt that I had to deal with it, promptly getting Samsung on chat to get a repair person. I eneded up with a certified Samsung repair appointment being requested through Samsung, but would not get the appointment made until that place called me on Monday. I left messages with all the references Samsung had provided. I packed up the food and headed to Tosa. The fridge was out of warranty by one month, so any repairs would be out of pocket.
Sunday morning, Matt asked me what I was doing with the fridge, complaining that it would take at least $500 to get a repair person out. I said I have renters insurance that may cover it if need be (thinking new fridge or expensive repair). He went on that he knew it was a bad idea from the start, that people he knows don't buy used refrigerators, because it's a bad idea, but he didn't interfere because that's what I wanted to do.
Then he came in later and asked what, looking back, I would do differently. I said moving forward I will plug it into a highly rated surge protector. I asked if this was some kind of test, seeing if I learned a lesson (like he knows all). He got mad and said that I should know these things, I'm an electrical engineer and know better. He had bad feeling from the start and just knew something would happen, etc, back into the blame. I said, "You can share your feelings, but this is dumping. You're dumping on me."

Monday I get on the phone with all the places that didn't answer Saturday, and nobody services Samsung. I had looked around at other fridges in case I had to buy new.
He called and I said none service, it's just the Samsung provided appointment I was waiting to hear from. He said he could hear the sadness in my voice and to just buy a new fridge. The S-distributions were $65k, and what's $1100 for a fridge.
I later made an appointment with the Samsung when they called. $139, which would go toward cost of repair if I wanted to proceed. I told him that. He said that was worth a try. I said I made appt. They were coming Tuesday. Later he said that a co-worker suggested using renter's insurance to cover it. I said I already had said that on Sunday.

The fridge finally was fixed for under $500 total. He was trying to control so much, offering to have us stay at 1st house until it was done. No. We were fine without. Didn't NEED it, but a cooler did just fine for us.
