---
layout: post
title: Profiling!
date: 2023-10-14 12:12:12
---

Profiling Exercise.
I need to get past what I have become desensitized to and be able to see it clearly.
Strategies will be different depending on the abuser.

Their Profession:
Attorney. He has a lot of word crafting and order. He likes rules, but he is not interested in following all of them himself. 
He's extremely clever with what he puts in writing. He does all the 'right' thing. He is an elitist because he wants all the fancy stuff: country club, BMWs. He doesn't actually want to pay for it.
To him, parenting is an inconvenient distraction. He does things to look good. He sends me pictures to get a response. He publicizes his 'Disney Dad' style. He will go out of his way to 
try to look like he is involved and caring and interested in what others want, when he truly has no care about them. He just wants to look good.

First exercise: write everything I know about him
-Childhood: what wre his parents like? Any major traumas in his life? What do I know about his high school and college years?
-Was he a high achiever? Socially awkward? What were his romantic relationships like?
-Did he have career ambitions? Was he hard working? Lazy?
-Did he play the victim? Was he selfish? Did he have many friends?

He was conceived in Texas, where his dad was finishing college and his mom was terrified of being away from her family in Wisconsin. She was from a very controlling patriarchal family. She was all about 
serving the men, her brothers and father. The roles were firmly set. She had tried to go to college in Milwaukee, an hour from home, and was unable to do so. She moved to Texas for BJ, whom it is 
hard to imagine her ever actually being in love with. She was 22 when AH was born. As she was going into labor, BJ had flown down to Texas to attend his dad's funeral. He got stuck by a tornado, and MR was terrified
that. She gave birth, and BJ got there soon after. It is hard to imaging him as anything other than smiling and quiet, ready to be controlled by his wife. His family was disowning him essentially because
MR was Catholic and he was from a Church of Christ family that didn't recognize Catholics as Christians or saveable. His mom had said, "Whatever you do, don't fall in love with a catholic girl."
So AH was born to such young parents. BJ was 23. He was starting his career and likely had no idea what to do. He did not do diapers or anything of the sort. She could not breastfeed due to pain, which 
she attributes to being a redhead. She held him and rocked him to sleep until he was 9 months old and the doctor told her to stop doing that. They were stable, though they moved to Indiana briefly before coming
back to Wisconsin to settle in the Madison area.
One thing that was a 'trauma' for AH was the arrival of his brother. His brother was a mellow baby who played independently rather well. There was an issue with the brother's circumcision, and AH was
disturbed that they had to talk about and see the doctor about the circumcision. AH still boasts that he is VERY circumcised, as opposed to his brother who was not cleanly circumcised. He did not do well
with sharing the attention with a baby brother. At this point he had his first friend, Chris. The moms had met at the apartment complex and started the social group that grew as the parents continued to have more 
babies. They still socialize with the same group today. I don't hear of ANY friend of his mother from growing up, and I'm assuming she did not have any, really. It was all about family and her
brothers and serving the dad. So it was the couples friends group. BJ tagged along.
Then at age 5, AH's eye crossed. The parents took him to the doctor immediately, and the fix was thick coke bottle glasses to correct the crossed eye. He was in school with Chris at a public school. Chris was 
small but socially confident, oldest son of a boastful narcissist. Chris taught AH how to tie his shoes. Chris kept AH under his wing and introduced him to others and let him be part of the group. Then Sis
was born, and they had three little kids living in that apartment. MR's dad gave them money for a down payment and they got a 3 bedroom, 1 bathroom new build. The boys shared a room. Brother was very 
happy go lucky and made friends easily. He learned easily. He was outgoing. People liked him. He was also very whiny when he did not get his way or when AH was not nice to him or bullied him.
AH complains about how Brother would cry all the time, and how it was inconvenient to have to wait for the order to come out at McDonald's withOUT onions on the burger. It was inconvenient for him
to have to put up with Brother. There was very little talk about Sis, but Sis said that AH was horribly mean and overall just not a nice person and not a reasonable person. He would threaten to hit her with 
a strange rod that he kept in the basement.
In the house, AH made two friends: Mike lived behind him, and Jeff was nextdoor when his dad had custody. He stayed home friends with Mike, school friends with Chris. MR&BJ did not socialize with Mike's parents.
They were also Catholic, but they went to a different church or just were not compatible somehow. I think that Mike's family dynamic was opposite with the dad running the show and mom small. MR ran the show
and BJ was her pawn.
At second grade, just after Sis arrived, AH went on to a private Catholic school instead. Chris went to the same school at the same time. Chris helped AH adapt to the new school. There were some 
issues with AH and a couple teachers. One teacher said to MR that they had to get a handle on AH's temper or it would cause problems. I don't think MR understood that the teacher was serious. She didn't get it.
AH was not a stellar student. He did not work to his potential, according to the teachers.
Sometime in middle school years, Chris and his family moved about an hour away. AH was on his own. He was awkward, shy, and geeky with his coke bottle glasses and temper.
He went to high school on his own. He decided not to wear glasses because he was too self-conscious. He talks about being 'poor' when everyone else 'had money', which is not something that 
Brother or Sis recount at all. AH makes it sound like the house was going to be foreclosed, but they were never dire. They did not buy on credit. They did not take vacations. They had cheap
used cars that BJ fixed. They were always an off-style color. MR and BJ were decidedly uncool, even though they were young. MR was never connected socially so of course she had no style. She likely dressed
just like her mom, who was actually a bit older when she had MR and who was from a small town and who had gotten together with MR's dad when she was a minor and he was much older.
So AH was not popular at high school. Some of the kids from the small Catholic school went to the public high school with him, but he did not have friends from that group. Chris was his crutch friend. Mike
was there, but they were not in the same grade. Mike was a year ahead. The school was growing. He tells stories of punching kids and generally being a tighly wound person. He did not have any girlfriends
until senior year even though he liked girls. He took a girl to homecoming who worked at a fast food restaurant and smoked cigarettes. She was 'fast' and that was his first kiss, and they never spoke
after that. He didn't like her. He finally got together with Jamie, and things progressed quickly. They met in accounting class. She was from a messed up family, being raised by her grandpa and crazy step-grandmother
after a murder-suicide took her parents when she was just an infant. They had sex without a condom because she was on birth control. She became pregnant, and he still blames the anti-biotics.
Around the time that she became pregnant his family went on a trip. He stayed back and bought a motorcycle. Then a few months later they found out she was pregnant. He took her to prom when she was starting to show.
They broke up soon after. He went to college and didn't think much about her. He came back at Thanskgiving time to help move his dad's office. He had a cold. Jamie's aunt called to tell him that 
he had a baby girl. He decided to go the next day to meet the baby. The aunt had to convince Jamie to let him hold the baby. 
He went to school about an hour from home. When he came home he wanted to spend time with his girlfriend Renee, who was his first love. She was an aspiring model. MR primarily managed the 
visitation with Alycia. Jamie did not know the first thing about raising a baby. She was living at her grandpa's. It is unclear who paid for the baby. AH does not know. BJ was more of a father
figure to Alycia, which was evident when he walked her down the aisle with AH. He thought that MR would stand up to that and not allow it. MR knew the truth.
So AH had to work hard to pay for school. He was a solid B-C student in high school. He and Chris decided to go to the same college. This is a little strange because Chris was much smarter, wealthier, and 
had excelled socially. So they decided to go to school together. AH talks a lot about the dorms, not being a frat guy, getting into fights over girls, getting drunk. He is proud that he didn't drink until 
he turned 18. This is humorous because 18 is not the legal drinking age... When he started drinking he was able to feel more confident socially. He felt like he had somethign to days and that people would
like him. He liked drinking. Thus he drank in college. He did pretty well in college, B or so. He'd known since grade shcool that he wanted to be an attorney, so he applied to a handful of 
law schools. BJ talked to him about it, if it was something he really wanted to do, weighing the costs. He got into school in Michigan at the last minute. BJ drove him there.
He had to take on loans for law school. Now that he was farther away, he did not come home as much. He did not see his daughter much. He says that he made decisions about where he would take jobs based on 
wanting to be near her. He still was not paying a penny for her care or anything pertaining to her. He would come home and would see a girlfriend (this one was crazy. Renee had moved on long ago.) He did not 
prioritize seeing Alycia. When he was in law school, he still was the uncool poor one compared to the people in his clan. He did make a couple friends, and he sees them still now only in the last few years. 
One of the guys was at our wedding, and he is the 'historian' of the group. He got a group together for a major drinking weekend in Kentucky the weekend after Labor Day.
At one point in high school, AH had a brain virus and his mom was scared he would die. He also had a couple migraines. It was not super traumatic. He was on sports teams, but never varsity. He is not 
naturally athletic.

Going Deeper: Who is he during times of comfort, peace, and contentment?
When things are going his way, he is big and puffs out his chest. He brags and tells the same line to everyone. He is looking for approval and admiration. He is loud. He is gloating. 
He is not generally quiet, but in peace times he will have quietly cleaned everything in the house, he would generally like to slam down a few drinks and talk louder. Usually if he is quiet it is 
because somethign is bothering him. He either doens't know how to say anything about it or is waiting for me to try to draw it out if he is quiet. If he is happy and content he wants everyone to know what is
going well in his life, why he is so awesome, and hopes for adoration. Sometimes he will be sharing pictures. In the past he would have wanted sex or to cuddle or to physically express his greatness.
He otherwise plans all sorts of things or is lising all sorts of things. When he is content he will talk about buying something, or a car, or a house, or a golf thing, or how much more money he will make.
He wants to be noticed and validated and adored for his accomplishments. He's screaming out "look at me". He may make fun of someone else, state how sad it is that someone else's financial situation
is so pathetic and how great he is at managing ours. He will not do a lot of moving around when he is content. As soon as he is discontent he will be in motion. He might be nice and ask for me 
to rub his back or scratch his head (previously. we don't do that anymore). He will pull from order and a list.

Mannerisms:
He has a weird looking sniffle that he does that squishes up his face. He shifts his eyes side to side. He talks out of the side of his mouth, literally holding his head to talk down on whatever
the topic is. He shakes his head. He will stand and lean in toward me. When he is mad, his body moves.
He will cry so that his emotions become the biggest thing in the room if he is not getting enough attention. He will stand over people and be physically larger than anything.
He will shake his head and say things under his breath, like "unbelievable". He will say, "In AH's world..." or "AH doesn't do that." or "For AH..." He will again state that he is better
than others, that he does not want to do what most people do because other people are stupid. 
He likes things to be clean an in place and in order. He wants as few things as possible. Yet he has very messy drawers and closets and storage areas. The places that are not seen are not neat.
He will adjust things out of place, including if my shirt is not fully straight or if any skin is showing. He adjusts the kids clothing also. He wants us to look the best and fit in more than he wants us to be ourselves.
He will be frenzied or in a hurry and bark out commands. He will whine and pout.
He loves his beer. It used to be frequent alcoholic drinks around the girls and just every night. Fortunatlye he agreed to not drink around them. He wants to on special occasions, and I'm really not sure
what a 'special' occasion would be that it becomes appropriate to drink in front of them. He wants to go places to show off his beautiful family, then socially abandons us to talk to some person none of us
has been introduced to. He mentioned that in law school he masturbated excessively. I don't think he has any addicions to porn or sex. He definitely is not addicted to exercise. He is 
into cleanliness and financial order and good behavior. 
I know that things are heating up when his chest gets bigger. He usually springs up very fast or shifts very fast, or shakes his head in disdain while not making eye contact. He will break eye contact.
He will be at a loss for words or have a hard time stringing together the words. There is speed to his body. There is visible energy. I can almost see it coming up throgh from his pelvis to his chest and sometimes
up to his mouth and head and out his mouth. Other times it just builds and he looks away and doesn't say anything. He moves a lot with discomfort internally. 
Deception, when he's deceiving me, the energy goes from head to pelvis and he looks down with shrinking energy or away with sideways energy. The energy initiates in his head. he tries to move it elsewhere.
It's kind of funny because he cannot hide his face as much as he tries to. If he's nervous non-confrontational, he will clean something or go to bed. Then he might come back after saying he was 
really tired.

Strong points: pays bills quickly and on time; does not carry debt; does not have a lot of junk; he is on time; will eat leftovers so we don't waste food; does not waste money; pays into girls' college funds; willing to have my mom come live with us

Living: attorney; currently president of law firm. he likes being president. it is easier than his previous job as managing shareholder

Known personality traits known for industry: arrogant, manipulative, lying, deceitful, greedy, seflish, God-complex

How important is his image 1-10: 10

more intro or extro behind mask: he is more extroverted in that he needs the company and approval of other people. the world inside his head is pretty real, but he cares more about validation 
from the outside world

what feeds ego or drives him: he wants to be praised for his earning. in terms of friend group he wants to be hanging out with the guys, talking sports, having high knowledge, getting gambling right, getting sports stuff right, texting with his friends about sports, haveing conversations with Rob

How he handles risk and uncertainty: he gets nervous and does not like not being in control. he is fidgety and hard to be around

On 1-10 hos is he at impression management? he's generally all right. he's better at smiling. People tend to have a high impression of him when he is a silent presence. For example, at church he just follows us around and says little to nothing. He has planned conversations with key individuals like Pastor T or with Greg M. or Tim. He goes for gentle or extremely optimistic people in highly visible status.


Typical behaviors when stressed? he bites his nails. 

Seem driven by relationships? Definitely. He wants relationships with his friends at the bar. He cares a LOT what his family thinks.

How does he handle criticism? It does not go well. He gets angry. It has been better lately. However it tends to turn around into me being hard on him or not respecting him or why can't I just support him or understand him

Ever dropped his mask around acquantances or coworkers or church friends? Describe three of these occasions.
Oma: phone conversation about the real estate contract i had signed and that he was terrified would carry through without his signature
Kathryn: he raged at her and called her stupid and she went upstairs crying and he left
Angela: he went off in the room, sick of hearing about Kathryn

Weaknesses, Buttons, Triggers: anything negative about him; money; Trudi having autism
Are there abandonment issues or triggers from childhood? he was 'forgotten' with his brother arriving; not knowing how to tie his shoes when everyone else could; not having as much money; his dad not being harder on him; his dad not initiating ball play or other activities with him; his parents being so uncool; overall less-than childhood means overall any less-than trigger
Family dysfunction buttons or triggers: Brother being born; Sis being born; 
Biggest buttons or triggers in day to day life: cleanliness; following his orders; behaving perfectly; not having opinions contrary to his
Biggest weaknesses: selfish, unable to see or accept impact of his actions; weak; fears risk; fears growth; fears me knowing more or growing; fears girls getting hurt (too strong of control);
gaslighting himself and us; judgemental; not authentic; insists he's alway sright; needs to have the most important voice; cannot handle not being in control; doubles down when threatened
1-10 how big of a button is money: 10
When I push financail button, does he retaliate? How? he will retaliate by being overly communicative about how he charges. However, I have no insight into cash. he will double down and say it was all for us; he will forget to give me cash.
Does anything else come to mind?


Insights through outside perceptions:
when friends/colleagues/loved ones first met him, what did they think? WEre they charmed or skeptical? 
they thought he was serious and quiet. They were skeptical. Aunt and stepmom were less thrilled. JMJ was very skeptical becasue he took no interest in her or my friends in general. He only
cared about himself and his family and his circle. He made no effort to talk to any of my friends
When did your inner circle begin to see red flags or express concerns? JMJ expressed concern on the phone. LMDO thought he was fine but could see how he might be a bit controlling. K did not say anything. AMM did not have negative or positive. He was quiet the whole time with them. Auntie Shell never liked him and only said this after I said I was going. She had abuse and was telling me about it when she visited with BTR was born. I remember wanting to just go to sleep but being so into her story. I think she just had seen the guy immediately before coming to see me at the 
hospital so it was fresh in her mind.
Were there times when he dropped the mask arond them? Describe three of those occasions.
He did drop it only around Oma and Kathryn. There were awkward time around the family where they could tell something had been going on.

Time Jump
He'll fight for 50/50 custody for: image; to hurt me; to decrease child support obligation. Or some combo.
Most are not cabable of parenting effectively long term. If I were to jump forward three years, do you feel he is really
capable of maintaining 50/50?
He is capable of it. It would not be ideal. He is not equipped to do it well or gracefully. He would do it, though.

Ongoing Profiling
-his tactics and strategies change with time. to him it is all about winning. if a stratetgy that uset ot work before no longer works he will try something new. 
if there are children involved it will be importatnt to profile him annually to account for any changes to his tactics so you can strategize accordingly.
