---
layout: post
title: Family Camp!
---

In two days my minivan will have: H driving, mom (very abusive until I had kids, much calmer now due to cognitive decline) passenger up front; 5 yo, me, 6 yo in row two. It’s 4 hours away. I’m traveling with these two who have caused the most pain to be surrounded by the church family I chose (and love). They do not like each other, but they team up or use each other to try to get to me. He never drives, but the kids are vocal to us all about neither him nor my mom sitting between them.
Part of me thought I’d have filed prior to this trip. Part of me is dragging. I moved out with the girls almost 2.5 years ago. They go to H’s house Friday to Sunday. I go there Saturday to Sunday. It used to be that I was alone Friday and Saturday, but I missed my kids. There was talk and movement, largely fueled by the couples therapist who just this summer became his individual therapist, too. I realized after listening to the Mind Mapping lessons in July that he’s actively mind masking me. The covert, controlling, manipulative behavior is shocking.
There are so many things that this scenario has illustrated are not working overall. For one, I’ve allowed my peaceful support structure to become ‘polluted’. Two, I see now that the masking has me ‘regular married in a different house’ rather than ‘independent and separated’.
Yesterday, after 4 days with H on his extended family trip, I felt immediately refreshed upon getting back to the apartment with the girls (he went back to the house), then violated and unsettled as the day wore on, seeing the reality of the situation. I’m guessing the same thing will happen, but it is so close to that feeling and my mom is added to this picture. I’ll call around to IFS practitioners for an appointment after returning.
The ‘navigating the holiday’ video was helpful tonight, and I’ll do the holiday manual handout on each of them as possible before departure. I’ll keep doing the work. It doesn't seem fast enough. As I type, though, I see that it is just right. I need boundaries, and there they are. 
I am afraid of what will happen afterward. I am scared of the work that I am going through, having thought that EMDR and some casual growth work has taken me out of so much. Seeing mind masking I am afraid of what I will find. I'm not afraid of the IFS, but the exercises have not been 'accessible' to me. I have a hard time remembering all of it, and want a practitioner. So I'll do that. No excuses. I have the resources. I'm going there. I want to take care of my parts. There are so many layers that I know will be there. I was taking care of way too much from a very young age. I was both terrified of and fantasized about running away from my mom, and wanted her love and approval. I remember so many hurtful times, and I know so many have been blocked out. 
New Heidi, here I come. I guess the reason that I am waiting to take action is that I don't want to do all that work during a divorce. That is too much. I need to be as healthy as possible first so that I can make it through.
