---
layout: post
title: Bikes and Sleeping bags
---

There was a list of things to bring to Family Camp. He made a really big deal of it.
On the way back from Mercer, he said he was confused why it was such a big deal to bring bikes and helmets. I said we are not bringing bikes. We don't ride around, and we don't need to bring them, plus there is no room for them in our vehicle. He was concerned that we were missing out on something or that it would be detrimental to our experience not to have them. I said we are not bringing them. He asked a man at church who said, no just kids like to ride around on bikes. I said our kids are on training wheels. The man said it is all gravel. There is nowhere for kids with training wheels to ride. That put him at ease.

The matter of sleeping bags... I said we don't need, plus we don't want to introduce something totally new on game day. The girls need to try it out. I said, let's take bedding instead for the twin and full beds. He said we don't have full sheets. I said we can use a queen. I said we can even use a queen flat sheet. He was skeptical that it would work. I'm not sure who he thought would be inspecting it, and said I'm sure it will work. He didn't know if I had tried it before and remained skeptical that a larger sheet would be foldable over it. We discussed which blankets we would take for which person. I thought it was a done thing. However when he went to Walmart while the kids and I were at bible study, he decided to buy sleeping bags. (alert, a sleeping bag still needs something between it and the rubber bed cover...) He bought a $15 bag for each girl, very rough no frills, easy to get the bag stuck in the zipper. He bought me one that is $20, better zipper, machine washable (not sure if or how the girls' bags can be washed...), and for YOUTH. Yeah. Youth. Clearly marked. What happened to the bedding and blankets? I tried out the bags with the girls that night. Younger was fine, though it slipped off her little body several times in the middle of the night with her thrashing. Older was on floor with hers, and wanted to move to the bed in the middle of the night. The next day she said she didn't like it due to how it felt. I said let's put it in the bed. She said no, it was the actual bag she did not like and how it felt. The material was too scratchy for her. I agree it is the cheapest feeling material that is entirely unpleasant. I offered her my youth bag to try. She got in it and tried it in her bed. At some point she wanted out of the bag and said she did not like feeling stuck in it. Sleeping bags are not for her. That's what I'd expected, and I was glad that we could avoid an episode at camp. I was proud of her for trying. She tried two. 

In the end, I made all the beds with the appropriate sized sheet. H got a queen fitted sheet on his full mattress. Girls got twin sheets (fitted for OG, flat for YG). I took a twin and the youth bag (the cheap one is way too scratchy for me, too). He used the rejected cheapo. YG used her cheap-o, and had her unicorn glow in the dark blanket at the ready just in case she did not like it or if it fell off. They both were on top bunks. That is better since there was a wall on one side and rail on the other to keep them safe in their beds.

When the girls and I got to the apartment that Sunday, I was feeling icky, gross, and violated. I was angry and on edge. It was hard for me to focus. I realized that we had a whole conversation about the sleeping bags, all the way down to him recommending which blankets we would take for whom, and then he bought sleeping bags instead of the chairs he went for. It was infuriating. Why do I bother having conversations and agreements? There is not follow through. Just like things not getting resolved, this is all stuff that is made to suit him. And it created extra work for me. Plus we took even more stuff in the van to camp. I felt violated. In the moment I was more 'hmmmph, interesting'. But often my feelings take a while to catch up with my body. In the moment with him I am not open, but rather my emotions are suppressed. I am on guard. It is not a natural state or a free state. It is high anxiety. It is only when I am free again in my own space that I realize that something was very wrong, much of the time. The main time that I don't feel the 'shud down' type state or have feelings faster is when the kids are melting. Then I feel helpless and out of options, like I'm failing them and failing my role as a mother. I doubt myself. I fear that my kids will be ruined. It takes a hot minute to calm down and tend to the melting child. They were out of sorts that particular Sunday night, and it was rather difficult to get through without yelling at them for being difficult. Of course they were hot messes! They had just come back from vacation, lots of cousins and stimulation, lots of late nights. And things were not going their way. We were a hot mess of females doing our best, and I just do my best to love on them through the icky.

