---
layout: post
title: Credit increase
date: 2023-08-13 12:12:12
---

My credit took a little nose dive last year. I had everything set up in my personal bank account to pay my individual credit card automatically. When I had a zero balance it kept paying, so I built up a credit. In order to stop it, I turned off the sync apparently. Anyway, I spent the credit and did not realize that I had a balance. I got hit with late fee AND they closed the account. I have been good with it otherwise. It was an oopsie. It's clear that I do too much, and it was not my top priority, quite frankly. H was mad because it affects our borrowing capability for 3rd house. He was ok with being the only person on the loan, but said that it would keep us lower limit because they go with the lowest of all credit scores for both people on the loan, and that would be mine. I have had a great score historically, so this was not like I'm a complete buffoon. I also figureed that I could get an add-on loan later on that would cover, or just skip that and save money to pay for stuff rather than loaning. I think we would get a $1.3 M or more on just his income, no issue. Mine would only take us up a little bit. 
So he lets me know when my score has gone up. This particular day I was getting food going for Sunday morning before church. He came to me and said to look at my credit score. He was logged in to my personal Amex account on his phone (side note: he tried to create a login for himself and ended up applying for a new card altogether, completely oblivious until he got a new card in the mail that he could not activate; I had to deal with that for him after he accused me of messing it up and accused Amex of scamming him, blah blah blah, anything but him having applied for it. the agent on the phone was very clear in what he had done and listed the steps. I feel slightly guilty for realizing how many ASININE things H does and blames on others. There are more and more that are coming to light lately, and that other people are mentioning. And he says it's ME who is dumb and inept, especially with money: he overpaid for family camp because he calculated from a price listed on the website instead of just LOOKING at the INVOICE, which he claims he never got... I was cc'ed on the email, and it most certainly had an attached invoice; in general not looking at invoices; making extra payments that went to loan interest on the mortgage instead of to principal; leaving his briefcase on the bus with our CHECKbooks in it; not realizing that the payment that posted to our account for the kids' tuition was from the check he had given me to hand in, and freaking out that it was coming from the tied account electronically and messaging galore; there must be so many others that I'm not seeing, it's just recently seeing so many silly mistakes)
So he has my score in my app login and he shows it to me at 714, and I said, "Yeah, it's going up." I was not enthusiastic. I know it is going up. I'm not borrowing money so I don't really care. It doesn't make me feel better about myself to have a high credit score when I prefer not to live on credit to begin with. He said to look how close I am for us to be able to borrow at the best rate. I said, "sure, that's just not relevant right now". He said I ruined it. That he was just so excited about my credit and I ruined his excitement by saying that.
Later that night he asked that we go out on the weekend to discuss the next steps for our family. 
He has entirely different thoughts from me on this. Maybe he is scared that I'm up to something. I'm not actively doing anything except personal growth and minimal education on our financial situation. Is he expecting me to break up with him? Is he expecting me to come back now that he has attended two individual therapy sessions? I will not take pressure to do anything. It will be in my own time. There still are parts of me that are not ready to move forward. There is so much of me that I am not in touch with. I want to be aligned. I am willing to get extremely uncomfortable to be a better version of me and to be a better mother, authentically able to connect to my kids and help guide and shape them with true love.
FF talks about the parts as having a food fight on the bus. I see mine as an Amtrak. My life has been full of trauma. It is upper-middle class trauma. Still it is trauma. I sometimes feel like a spoiled human rather than sitting in the right to have these feelings of trauma. The fact of the matter is trauma is trauma. While there may be money or privelege, no physical attacks, no break-ins or threats to my life, it is a threat to my emotional wellbeing. It is a covert control. The control is coming out in so many ways! 
This week alone it seemed there was an issue daily that he reminded me of: the coolers, the device the mechanic left in the car, the check for tuition, the babysitter for Saturday... My therapist said he goes into a parent-child dynamic where he has the need to rule over me like a parent would a child. It clearly is control-seeking. Is he feeling loss of control? I guess the change to have so much control is partly me noticing it, and partly me not blindly engaging in it, and partly him being scared. The weird part is the more he tries to add these layers of subtle control, the more it makes me feel off-centered. I can literally feel the energy going out of me, and my capacity decreasing. That is not the effect i want, and it is exactly what he wants: create a situation where he NEEDS to be calling all the shots and directing everything, which he creates by adding all this on over and over. No. I want a week of no contact. If he really is working on himself then why is all this control coming out? It's a lot of control attempts for someone who has been told that it is over if I feel controlled. I guess that's it. I do feel like he is trying to control. He would say he is trying to be helpful, offering suggestions. I am not inept. I can manage! Seriously! I could tell him that I need space since I feel like he is trying to control me. It will turn into a DARVO, at which point I know it is a disrespect of my NO, which is further fuel to move on. I am not ready to move on. Part of me is still holding on. LIkely the spiritualizer. Three calls are in to IFS practitioners to work through this with me. I think that MindMapping I can tackle on my own (which is what all this control and control texts is about) and the IFS stuff can wait until I find someone who takes insurance or until I am at that point of the course. Neither will be long from now. MindMapping does scare me a bit because it will shine truth on things that I don't necessarily want to know about :( 
It is time, though. It is imperative to me to use the life God gave me to the fullest extent of impact. There is no excuse to do nothing when I know there is a far reach in this self. As a person, mother, friend, partner, employer, spouse (?), daughter, sister...
